---
layout: post
title: "9447ctf: dub-key"
author: kw 
categories: writeup
---

* **Category:** Crypto 
* **Points:** 130 
* **Solves:** 54 
* **Description:**

> My friend set up a small signing scheme, however she won't let me sign stuff. Can you get it signed?
>
> Find it at dub-key-t8xd5pn6.9447.plumbing port 9447    
>
[dub-key.tar.gz](https://github.com/ctfs/write-ups-2015/raw/master/9447-ctf-2015/crypto/dub-key/dub-key-ab9f970aa1ae119fc486e88e15c859a6.tar.gz) 
MD5 checksum: ab9f970aa1ae119fc486e88e15c859a6

## Credits

Thanks to

* jrandom
* verr
* febo
* kree
* wolfg

for the collaboration on this challenge :)

## Write-up

This crypto challenge is about proof of work and signatures.

At first we need to solve a proof of work challenge.
The server sends 9 random bytes, base64 encoded. 
The challenge is to find an input which has a length of 20 bytes and starts with the 12 base64 encoded random bytes from the server
for the SHA-1 hash algorithm that results in an output value with 3 ***\x00*** in the end.
This was a straight forward task: appending characters to the challenge in a loop until we find a hash which fulfills our criteria.

Now the tricky part begins.
The server generates 2 times 128 random bytes, ***SECRET*** and ***TO_SIGN***.
The signature is then calculated as follows: ***sig = sign(SECRET + TO_SIGN)***.
The server sends us ***TO_SIGN*** and we need to find a collision. 
This means that we need to find another input, which gets concatenated with ***SECRET***, that results in the same signature.
Before we provide our input, we can send the server values which are different to ***TO_SIGN***, lets call them ***TO_SIGN'***, and the server responds with the signature (***sig = sign(SECRET + TO_SIGN')***).
For each connection we can ask the server for at most 255 signatures. 

To solve also this challenge, we needed to take a closer look at the signature algorithm.
It's the product of each cycle length of the input (***SECRET + value***).
The cycle length can also be thought as the amount of edges in a graph. 
For instance you start at index 0, which is your first node, and jump to the index which is the value at index 0.
Now you would have a cycle length of 1. 
This process continues until you get an index which is already in the graph.

We came up with 2 solutions.

One is that we searched for a circle inside ***TO_SIGN*** and changed the orientation (each node points then to the incoming node).
For example if you have the circle ***7-->10-->8-->7***, you can change its orientation to ***7-->8-->10-->7***.
This is a different input for the signature algorithm, but leads to the same signature as we are challenged on :)
One remark here is that we came up with this solution when the CTF was already over.

One is that we changed exactly 1 byte in ***TO_SIGN*** (to the value of the current index), let the server sign the modified value, and store the signature in a map.
The key of this map is the signature, and the value is the occurrence of this signature.
After 128 iterations (length of ***TO_SIGN***) we take the signature which occurred most often, and this was in almost every case the same signature as we are challenged on :) 
This is the solution we used during the CTF.

## Solution in python

The second solution, what we used during the CTF, can be found in the outcommented part in the main function.

{% highlight python %}
#!/usr/bin/python
import hashlib
import itertools
from base64 import b64encode, b64decode
from pwn import remote

__host__ = 'dub-key-t8xd5pn6.9447.plumbing' #'localhost'
__port__ = 9447


def get_SHA(data):
    ha = hashlib.sha1()
    ha.update(data)
    return ha.digest()


def find_SHA(challenge):
    charset = "".join(chr(i) for i in range(0x00, 0x100))
    for p in itertools.chain.from_iterable((''.join(l) for l in itertools.product(charset, repeat=i)) for i in range(8, 8 + 1)):
        candidate = challenge + p
        print "p        : " + p
        print "candidate: " + candidate
        proof = get_SHA(candidate)
        if (ord(proof[-3]) == 0) and (ord(proof[-2]) == 0) and (ord(proof[-1]) == 0):
            return candidate
    return None


def get_cycle_circle(data, start_index):
    # print "in get_cycle, got data: " + ''.join([str(x) for x in data])
    cycle_circle = []

    for i in range(start_index, len(data)-1):
        # calculate cycle
        index = i
        indices = []
        values = []
        count = 0
        while not index in indices:
            indices.append(index)
            values.append(data[index])
            count += 1
            index = data[index]

        # check if it's a circle with length >= 3
        if count >= 3:
            circle = True
            for j in indices:
                if not(j in values):
                    circle = False
                    break
            if circle:
                # print "We found a circle! :)"
                # print "Indices: " + ','.join([str(x) for x in indices])
                # print "Values: " + ','.join([str(x) for x in values])
                cycle_circle = indices
                break

    return cycle_circle


def change_circle_orientation(data, cycle_circle):
    """
    change pointing of circle nodes to the incoming ones
    (reverse cycle orientation)
    """
    data_mod = list(data)

    for i in cycle_circle:
        index = data[i]
        value = i
        # print "index: " + str(index)
        # print "value: " + str(value)
        data_mod[index] = value

    return ''.join([chr(x) for x in data_mod])


if __name__ == "__main__":
    # loop until we found a collision (different input, same output)
    while True:
        # ----------------------------------------------------------------------
        # initialization

        # connect to the server
        try:
            _s.close()
        except NameError:
            pass
        _s = remote(__host__, __port__)
        # ----------------------------------------------------------------------

        # ----------------------------------------------------------------------
        # proof of work
        _pow_challenge = _s.recv(12)
        # print _pow_challenge

        _pow = find_SHA(_pow_challenge)
        _s.send(_pow)

        _r = _s.recvline()
        if _r.__contains__("Bad proof of work"):
            print "[!] We got a bad proof of work!"
            exit(1)
        # ----------------------------------------------------------------------

        # ----------------------------------------------------------------------
        # get the base64 encoded value TO_SIGN, on which we are challenged on
        _challenge_b64 = _s.recvline()
        _challenge = b64decode(_challenge_b64)
        # print "we are challenged on (base 64 encoded): " + _challenge_b64
        # ----------------------------------------------------------------------

        # ----------------------------------------------------------------------
        # request up to 128 signatures which are very similar to the original
        # one

        # map for our test signatures:
        #   key     --> signature
        #   value   --> occurrences of the signature
        """
        observed_signatures = {}

        for i in range(128):
            test_string = challenge[:i] + chr(i) + challenge[i+1:]
            # test_string = challenge[:i] + chr(127-i) + challenge[i+1:]
            # test_string = chr(i) + challenge[1:]
            if test_string == challenge:
                continue

            # Ask oracle for signature of the test string
            s.recvuntil("Give me signiture of data\n")
            s.send("1")
            s.send(b64encode(test_string))
            test_sig = s.recvline()
            test_sig = test_sig[:-1]
            # print "received signature: " + test_sig

            # store signatures in our map
            if test_sig in observed_signatures:
                observed_signatures[test_sig] += 1
            else:
                observed_signatures[test_sig] = 1
        # ----------------------------------------------------------------------
        """

        _chl_test = '0' * 128 + _challenge
        _cycle_circle_ = get_cycle_circle(map(ord, _chl_test), 128)
        if _cycle_circle_ == []:
            print "[>] No circle found! --> next iteration"
            continue
        print "[>] Found a circle :D"
        _challenge_mod = change_circle_orientation(map(ord, _chl_test), _cycle_circle_)
        _challenge_mod = _challenge_mod[128:]

        _s.recvuntil("Give me signiture of data\n")
        _s.send("1")
        _s.send(b64encode(_challenge_mod))
        _sig = _s.recvline()
        _sig = _sig[:-1]

        # ----------------------------------------------------------------------
        # send signature to verification

        _sig = "0" * (620 - len(_sig)) + str(_sig)

        # send it and see if it's the same signature as we are challenged on :)
        _r = _s.recvuntil("Give me signiture of data\n")

        _s.send("2")
        _s.send(_sig)
        _flag = _s.recvline().replace('\n', '')

        if _flag.startswith("9447{") and _flag.endswith("}"):
            print "[>] Looks like as we found a flag :D\n[>] " + _flag
            break

        print "[!] Found a circle but no collision or the flag format is " \
              "different?!\n[>] Got:  " + _flag
        # ----------------------------------------------------------------------

{% endhighlight %}

